13/1/20

Move some AI stuff to methodology
Currently reads like somebody chose the methods and I used them. Need to clarify how I decided what models to use (i.e. need to make clear WHY SVM is better than NN for this data). This could be in lit review or may need it's own chapter
Could draw a 'family tree' of methods, indicating whether they have been used for this type of forecasting or not, and which I have decided to use. Map the landscape of models somehow
Could split aims into two: (i) determine what methods to use, and (ii) apply them to obtain results as accurate as possible
Describe process of sorting through existing work to choose the models I have chosen
Put one minute analysis as 'further work'
Include results (systematically)
Include 'problem description' in introduction, perhaps by elaborating in DSM section
Describe what has been done already in this field, then how we are going to improve on this with data science methods
Interest over time in data science methods is too specific; show broader interest. The specific methods may be able to be used in a different section
Elaborate on why specific methods are used and why some are not
Don't include methodology in results
Describe TSA before models
Revert data to messy form, run models again


09/10/19

Move on from methodology and try get some results to present in Nov

02/10/19

Change referencing style to numbered
look for holes in data
throw out rf_24 and rf_17a
make weekly profile plot
add other elec (dotted line) to linear model

18/09/19

METHODOLOGY
Rather than give a general introduction to the mathematics of the models we should describe how well they fit in the context of electricity demand.
Include examples and plots where necessary
Include metrics - how each model will be compared to one another.
Write as if I'm introducing the models to somebody in the electricity sector.
Reference where other people have used these models for electricity demand.

11/09/19

Don't narrow down comparison to one criteria i.e RMS error, instead use a combination of:
-RMS accuracy
-physical fidelity
-interpretability
-computational efficiency
Display these comparisons in a radar chart


04/09/19

Overarching aim: produce work that can be built upon i.e. what works, what does not
There may be difficulty in using a number of different methods - how much do we introduce models in the methodology as opposed to in the results.
Each chapter needs to introduce exactly what is happening in the chapter.
Decided against picking a naive model for comparison, we will compare all models to each other. Naive models will be included to introduce concepts essential for more complex models.

21/09/19

Need to pick a naive model and create a methodology around it
essentially comparing all other models to this one.
May be worth checking other forecasting papers to see which
naive model is commonly chosen.

07/08/19

Deep understanding of theory behind models not necessary
just need to be able to explain them mathematically, describe what each term
does and state (not describe) how the model is fitted/optimised

Try construct the narrative of the thesis around key findings
i.e. increase in accuracy provided by adding non hw electricity

Decouple - thesis from code
	 - blocks of code from one another
	 - thesis from reproducible research output 

26/6/19

Need to understand the relationship between markov chains and autoregression
i.e. properly answer the question "is VAR markovian?"

Overaching idea for thesis: Often electrical signals are discrete, therefore continuous models 
not good for forecasting. 


18/6/19

Master equations 
-hopping probability from one state to the next
-simulate this process (2-state)
-may be difficult to incorporate previous times/periodicity
-also cross-correlations  


7/6/19

Find standard deviation of residual
can we alter model to fit bimodal frequency distribution?
how does previous signal determine whether element is on or off in next time interval


28/5/19 

Investigate LSTM for electricity data analysis
if no published work to be found, abandon
Go through and systematically explain what we are trying to do, 
difficulties encountered, directions taken, models explored etc.


22/5/19 

Current industry standard assumes non-peak HW demand ~200W/house offpeak, ~400W peak
If our model is 90% accurate, this is much better than that (90% of 2kW >> 200W)

Need to revisit VAR model (write up with plots etc)
what increase in accuracy can we get from additional houses
investigate CD_t esp. its dimensions, how it is generated
How does the model determine where to put weighting (CD_t or A_i?)
look into code for p (does it change for half-hour?)
Check A_(t-15) - should be similar to XCF plot at t-15
Try just AR model - how much does including other household electricity help accuracy
average out the residual over a day and plot
Plot the ACF and XCF of the model





                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
